docs: :memo: add principles for contributing (#186)
seedcase-project/design: organisation/contribution.qmd

---
title: "Contribution"
---

## We are our first users

Our work will often involve directly contributing to others' projects to
support and enable them in their work. This means we will most often be
the users of the tools and products we create. So, we aim to plan for
and design products with our own needs in mind first. But we will always

> build, document, and develop having the perspective that others will use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
build, document, and develop with the perspective that others will use
```

the products too.

## Prioritize, but don't obsess over, quality

High-quality, well-designed, and -written contributions are a major
investment that will pay off in the longer term. It leads to lower
technical debt, easier maintenance, and better user experiences. We aim
to invest in the longer term by prioritizing quality. However,
identifying quality often requires expertise, so we will also aim to
balance progress with our current knowledge for what is quality.

## Limit in-progress work

Humans have limited cognitive capacity. Work must be designed around
this in order for consistent and regular progress to be made in a way
that is humane and sustainable to emotional and mental wellbeing. We aim

> to have focused, intensive periods of work on as few projects in any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to have focused, intensive periods of work on as few projects as possible in any
```

given period and limit the number of tasks being actively worked on at
any given time.

## Document as much as possible

Documenting things is a way to reduce cognitive load and improve

> collaboration, as well as making things explicit. If there is a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
collaboration by making things explicit. If there is a new
```
? :)

> Documenting things is a way to reduce cognitive load and improve
> collaboration, as well as making things explicit. If there is a new

Author: ```suggestion
Documenting things is a way to reduce cognitive load, improve
collaboration, and making things explicit. If there is a new
```

> topic or if documentation doesn't exist on something, we aim to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
topic or if documentation doesn't exist on something we're working on, we aim to
```
Otherwise it could be documentation on anything, but maybe that's what is meant?

possible and wherever is feasible. We recognize that this can be
challenging and that some things may not be possible, however we will
put in the effort to keep these in mind when we design and develop.

## Follow conventions, not configurations

Configurations often require more cognitive load, instruction,
knowledge, and expertise to use well and as a result are often hard to
maintain and use properly. Meanwhile, products using conventions are
easier to use, maintain, and use. We aim to design and build using
external conventions as much as possible and create our own conventions
where necessary.

## Assume frequent change

While the world changes quickly and regularly, our knowledge of it is
always incomplete and evolving. We may do or use something now but later
find there was a better way or tool to use instead. So we aim to
incorporate this perspective into how we plan, design, and develop, by
expecting things will change and contribute what we can with what we
know now, assuming it is imperfect and may need updating shortly in the
future. We will not assume any product is ever "done", nor will we
assume any feature or task is ever truly "complete". As the sayings go,

> "perfect is the enemy of \[done\]" and "better a diamond with a flaw

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"perfect is the enemy of done" and "better a diamond with a flaw
```
Why the square brackets?

Author: The actual quote is "perfect is the enemy of good". When you change a word in a quote, you use `[]` to indicate the difference.

than a pebble without".

## Actively seek areas to improve

Things can change incredibly rapidly in the (creative) knowledge work
world, which includes the tech world. Software, methodologies and
documents get created daily and updated regularly. Even internally, our
products and documents can easily get outdated. So we aim to actively
and regularly seek out and be aware for opportunities to improve things.
This doesn't just include improving the products, it also includes the

> team workflows, communications, ["developer
> experience"](https://developerexperience.io/articles/good-developer-experience),
> [DevOps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DevOps), the
> ["platform"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_engineering), and
> security practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
team workflows, communications, [developer
experience](https://developerexperience.io/articles/good-developer-experience),
[DevOps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DevOps), 
[platform engineering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_engineering), and
security practices.
```
